Kowloon's Privacy Model, Explained (by @jzellis)

Kowloon's privacy model is based on simple principles:
No one should have access to your eyeballs unless you want them to;
No one should see anything you don't want them to see;
No one should be able to use your data for their own profit.
Kowloon Doesn't Care About "Engagement".

Every corporate for-profit social network measures success by "engagement" -- how often any given user interacts with it, whether by reading posts, replying or reacting to them, clicking on ads, etc. Everything about the network is designed to increase engagement... because the more you engage, the more data you're adding to your "social graph" -- what you care about, what you're interested in, which people or brands or political parties you talk about, whether positively or negatively. These networks don't care about the quality of your engagement -- whether you're posting angry reacts or arguing with people or hate-sharing a link to something you think is stupid or evil; only the quantity of your engagement. More engagement, more data gets built up and more nodes added to your social graph... which makes it all the more valuable to their real customers: advertisers and marketers, political campaigns, and people who generally want to influence the way you vote and think and buy things and will pay good money for your data to figure out new ways to do that.
Every single commercial social network is first and foremost a tool for data acquisition and analysis. You are not the customer; you're the product. They don't give you a platform to post your angry political rants or pictures of your grandkids or your vacations out of any desire to bring people together or any of the other stuff they pay lip service to in their PR and press interviews; it's so their systems can use all of it to build profiles of you to sell to people who understand that information is the most valuable commodity on Earth. This is not paranoia; it's simple fact.
But Kowloon is free and open source and nonprofit. There is no social graph built into Kowloon, and never will be. There is no advertising system built into Kowloon, and never will be. Kowloon is designed to do what most people believe social networks are built to do:
to let people publish their thoughts and ideas and art;
to share information they think is useful to share;
to make connections with other people.

That is its sole purpose. In fact, Kowloon isn't even really a social network: it's merely a platform for social interaction, the same way a Web server is a publishing platform. Because we are not a company or a service, we don't care about engagement or whether you spend five minutes or five hours a day looking at Kowloon. 
I've been online in one form or another since the late 1980s, as a preteen dialing into local bulletin board systems (or BBSes), and I was lucky enough as a young person to meet and know and be around a lot of the people whose ideas shaped the current online world -- meaning the world, period. I saw their utopian ideas about freedom of information and the possibilities of instant global person-to-person communication get co-opted by profiteering corporations and hucksters and tech bros, and corrupted by trolls and stalkers and scammers and creepers and shitlords.
I also pent over twenty years of my life living in Las Vegas, and I became very familiar with the tricks that casinos use to keep you in front of the slot machines and at the tables: no clocks anywhere to remind you of how long you've been sitting there feeding change into a machine, hidden entrances and exits -- even the layout is designed to make it difficult for you to find your way out, and everything leads you back to the gambling floor. The casinos want your money, but they also want the same thing every social network owner and online marketing douchebro and scammer and propaganda botnet owner and incel Nazi want:
They want your attention.

That's why Kowloon has made it as difficult as possible for anyone to slide into your timeline or your DMs or elicit a reaction from you unless you want them to. No creepy ex of yours or stalker can go through and 😂 or ❤️ react to your posts; no one can write hateful replies to your posts, even if they're public, unless you allow them to; you can talk and not be forced to listen. 
Human Relationships Are Ambiguous.

The two predominate current social network relationship models are symmetrical (friend <-> friend) and asymmetrical (followed -> follower). Both are drastic oversimplifications of how human relationships actually work and have always worked in real life. The reasons for this are complex, but it comes down to technical complexity, a certain lack of social skills from the people who created the networks and their models in the first place, and that social graph we were talking about earlier.
In real life, our relationships with other people are not binary. We do not simply have people who are "friends" and not friends, or people we "follow" or don't follow. Human relationships are messy and ambiguous. We have close friends, casual friends, acquaintances, work friends, people we used to be close to but aren't anymore but are still basically friends, ex-partners we still maintain relationships of varying kinds with; we have family we like and family we love and family we can't stand and family who are basically OK but a bit irritating. We have colleagues whom we call our "work wives" or "work husbands" and colleagues we wouldn't piss on if they were on fire. We have people we admire but don't really know and vice versa; people whose opinions on one topic we care about but not others; people we dislike or hate but still have to pay attention to for reasons familial, economic or political. We have people we secretly have a crush on, whom we'd share emotional details with in an act of trust but probably wouldn't want to see pictures of us drunk with the homies at the bar last night.
And none of these are sufficiently handled by the "friends" or "following" models.

  Kowloon has Circles because people have Circles. We have a Close Friends Circle and a Close Family Circle and a College Buddies Circle and an Annoying Colleagues Circle. We have, if we're being honest, a People We Don't Really Like But Are Useful Professional Contacts Circle and People We'd Like To Shag Circle and Ex-Partners We Have Kids With And Their Batshit Families Circle. And which Circle we put these people in is nobody's business but ours... not even theirs. There are jokes we'd only make with people who've known us since high school or college; there are people whom we want to let know if we're facing a serious health crisis but wouldn't talk to about our fears about it. There are people whom we regard as political or cultural allies but don't need to hear about our love life. And some of those people would be offended to find out that they're within one of our Circles of trust but not the one they assume they are. These complexities predate the Internet or even electricity and probably every technology save fire.
So when you create a Circle in Kowloon and share something with that Circle, they don't need to know what you've named that Circle or who else is in it, any more than you would announce to someone you're having a conversation with who else you might have the same conversation with. 
But in the same way we share our information with different Circles, we also have Circles based on what information we want to receive from other people. We may not want to know that the nice barista at the cafe or Susan at work just had an abortion or has been sober for fifteen days now; not because this information is shameful, but because we simply don't believe it's our business, even if they do. Likewise, we all have those friends from high school who want to tell us all about their newly-found religious faith or Herbalife or jokes about immigrants. We should not have to hear about Jesus or pyramid schemes or racist jibes if we don't want to.
That's why simply adding someone to a Circle in Kowloon and addressing a post to that Circle doesn't notify them of the post -- they have to already be following you in one of their Circles. In the same way you have the right to decide who you share things with, you also have the right to not be shared with if you don't want to. Everything you post in Kowloon is essentially a message in a self-propelled bottle: it will get to where it's going, but it's up to the person on the other end if they choose to fish it out of the water and open it up.
Dialogue vs Monologue vs Travelogue vs Unhinged Rant.

  I believe in absolute freedom of speech. I also believe in freedom from speech. I believe that everyone has the right to say what they please... and the right not to listen to every single person who feels like responding or replying.
That's why, in Kowloon, you can decide who can see each and every thing you share... but also who can reply and who can react to it. You can turn off replies to all your posts if you want; you can allow only people whose opinions you actually give a damn about to reply or even react. You don't owe anyone a conversation or a debate. They can always write their own response to whatever you posted, on their own server in their own timeline... but you don't have to read it or even know about it if you don't want to.
This doesn't mean you're free from the consequences of your speech... just being pulled into a debate about it with every single random person on the Internet who has an opinion on it. Let's face it: if we're being honest, most of us don't care what 99% of the human race thinks about our opinions on what the best cheesy movies or even the best system of government is. Why should we be forced to hear their opinions if we don't want to? But we also might want to hear from people we don't know about some things. Kowloon gives you the opportunity to decide this on a post-by-post basis. (Of course, you can also set a default filter and stick with it if you want.) So you can post about some tragedy you've seen in the news and be assured that nobody can laugh react to it to get a rise out of you, or you can post about a real-world event you're having and talk to people in your community about it, or open the floor up to discussion from every corner of the globe. It's up to you.
Why Doesn't Every Social Network Do This?

Because it decreases frustration, and frustration drives engagement. Social networks like their users vulnerable. They like it when you can't stop other people from "engaging" with your "content". None of this is technically difficult to implement, but from their standpoint it would be shooting themselves in the foot by reducing engagement.
But, again, we don't care if you engage or not. We don't make a single cent more or less if you do or don't. All we care about is giving you a platform to speak from, share from, and connect with others in whatever way you -- and they -- choose. We care about you feeling safe in speaking how and to whom you want and knowing that you don't have to hear from or even be made aware of anyone you don't want to. We want you to feel like you can speak freely in your own Kowloon community and, when you venture beyond its walls into the wider world, have the semiotic equivalent of a hazmat suit and rubber gloves if that's what you want.
No matter who you are or what you believe or how you want to engage with others, we want Kowloon to always feel like a safe space to engage and share and speak in.
That's the foundation of what Kowloon is: a network of walled cities for you to move in.
